# robotics-ud-ros-navigation
udacity robotics project5 using slam to map and localize robot inside custom gazebo building

## part 0: setup files
while i completed most of the deliverables in this project using the `turtlebot` included with `ROS`, i reproduced similar behaviors for most of the challenges using my own custom robot that was created in prior assignments.  since the packages and supporting code is very different, both `setup_myrobot.sh` and `setup_turtlebot.sh` scripts are included in the repo.  after doing both SLAM and navigation tests using my custom robot, all of the assignments were then done using the `turtlebot`, so the `setup_turtlebot.sh` was the script most often used. 

## part 1: test SLAM
this focused on launching the `turtlebot` included with `gazebo` inside my custom world and visualizing it both within `gazebo` as well as within `rviz` based on a map generated by the `gmapping` utility.  this comes together in the `test_slam_turtlebot.sh` shell script which runs `turtlebot_launch.launch`, `gmapping_demo.launch`, `view_navigation.launch` to observe the output in `rviz`, and `keyboard_teleop.launch'` in order to manually navigate the robot through the `gazebo` world as well as the map simultaneously.  

below is an image of the `turtlebot` running in that environment after executing the `test_slam_turtlebot.sh` script. 

INSERT 

## part 2: test localization and navigation
this task focused on moving to multiple locations within the map, demonstrating the ability of the robot to reach the location(s) and orient itself inside the map. this uses the `AMCL` package, and simultaneously shows moving within my custom `gazebo` world as well as the custom map as displayed in `rviz`.  destination locations for robot are provided using the 2D navigation button within `rviz`.  the `test_navigation_turtlebot.sh` script launches all the services, which include the `turtlebot_world.launch`, `amcl_demo.launch` and `view_navigation.launch` files. 

below is an image of the `turtlebot` running in that environment after executing the `test_navigation_turtlebot.sh` script. 

INSERT

## part 3: auto-pilot navigation to waypoints and desination
this focused on defining a list of locations to which the robot would autonomously navigate, and then observing the robot's successful movement to each of them in turn.  this leveraged similar `turtlebot`, `AMCL` and `rviz` services, but also required creating a custom `ROS` node that used `MoveBaseClient` object and a `MoveBaseAction` message from the `move_base_msgs` library in order to define a target location and orientation for the robot and then observe the robot's autonomous movement.  this also requires a logical rotation in the coordinate systems of `gazebo` and the resulting map, given the (well documented) 90 degree offset between those environments.  this required the use of rotated x, y, and a settings represented in the `amcl_demo.launch` file, and the appropriate translation in the `ROBOT_INITIAL_POSE` environment variable set in the shell script `pick_objects.sh`.  this script launches `turtlebot`, `AMCL` and `rviz` as usual, but also runs the custom `pick_objects` `ROS` node as well. 

below is several successive images of the robot navigating from the initial point to a (single) waypoint due west in the map, and then to the destination point due north.  

INSERT

## part 4: displaying markers on environment map


## part 5: simulating autonomous home service robot

